The Beginning

Human consciousness was caused by a virus or viroid that was basically just lying around on the fruit of one particular tree.

Then this monkey ate some, got infected, became sentient, and then used his relatively god-like intellect to astound all the monkeys around him, basically becoming their god.

He named himself Ya Wa. Now Ya Wa could think beyond the immediate moment. He was the first monkey with this ability.

Naturally, he realized that the other monkeys mustn't eat of that same tree, so he said, "Ooga booga! don't eat of the fruit of tree. I'm Ya Wa! har har!"

But Ya Wa was alone to his thoughts. He ultimately wanted to elevate a few of his monkey-servants up to his level (or thereabouts).

But he also realized that he wasn't just a monkey anymore. He was a virus riding a monkey. In a sense, he was the first vampire. Creating too many of his kind all at once would have catastrophic results for the planet, ultimately leading to the extinction of his own kind.

He began to train his favorite pet, Ada, so that he could prepare Ada to become his progeny--to become a monkey-god like him. He hoped that Ada would rule by his side as a monkey-goddess.

But then this monkey, Eve, ate the fruit anyway. Ada and Eve were best monkey-friends, and when Ada saw Eve eating the magic fruit, Ada went ahead and did likewise. (cut to lesbian scene)

Ada and Eve soon realized that Ya Wa was kinda pervy and just generally skeevy (he was basically grooming them to create some sort of weird vampire-harem).

By the time Ya Wa returned, Ada and Eve had put on some leaves to cover their assets around him. When Ya Wa figured out that they had eaten the magic fruit, he ran off, because the money-god jig was up.

As a parting piece of advice, Ya Wa told Eve his realization that there would be a vampire apocalypse. Then to ran off and started a new monkey-cult.

By that time, Ya Wa had figured out that the virus inflates the size of the brain, starting in the womb, causing hybrid childbirth to be fatal. So he advised Eve that birthing their kind would be... problematic. Don't ask how he figured out all that--it's gross.
