Plot twist:
1) The planet we call Earth is actually Nibiru.
2) We've been strip-mining the foreign planet real-Earth.
3) The chemtrails are spraying the looted Earth-gold into our (Nibiru's) atmosphere to fix it.
4) We're not Earthlings--we're from Nibiru.
5) Humans aren't animals--animals (and plants) are from real-Earth.
6) The literary conflict, man vs. nature, isn't a false dichotomy: we imported the real-Earth ecosystem to our planet Nibiru and the real-Earth ecosystem is reacting to us, an invasive alien species.
7) The Rapture was actually the smart humans who built a spaceship, and evacuated all the good humans from the Nibiru-Earth soap opera, leaving only shitty people. This was probably around the end of the last Yuga.
8) The rest of Revelations finished around the time of the aforementioned rapture. Apparently they went to a nicer planet. Kali Yuga is basically just post-Revelation Nibiru.
9) The dinosaurs were real. They built a civilization during each Yuga of their species' times... and subsequently destroyed themselves during their respective Kali Yugas (it wasn't an asteroid).
10) Some of the dinosaurs escaped to underground bunkers during their respective apocalypses (same as our elites will do). They have been down there for millions of years by this point, so one of three possibilities seems likely: they either have divergent evolution and no longer intend to return to surface-dwelling, or they are still waiting for the surface ecosystem to be prime for them again, or they already do return to the surface.
11) The "Subterranean Master Race" is the aforementioned dinosaurs. It's likely that they don't have our best interest at heart.
12) The dinosaurs used their technological advancements to achieve immortality and material transcendence, so they have parallels to the Elder Gods.
13) Humans are born of the Outer Gods... like Cthulhu and friends.
14) The technology to achieve Elder-Godhead is somehow incompatible with the Outer-Godhead, which must be achieved by "natural processes." The basis for this is that the aforementioned natural processes affect our existence on the Outer Plane in a certain way. And the Elder-tech affects it in another way.
15) The Original Sin, if you look at the original Hebraic text, involves the fruit/result of some craft/science (i.e., "shaft of knowledge").
16) So... the Elder-tech would basically be D&D Wizardry or FMA Alchemy. It would involve a very technological and computational approach, could probably produce philosopher's stones, but the FMA (meta)physics apply: they cost souls and can be exhausted.
17) Outer-magick would be more intuition-based. Generally, one would spend time serving the Outer Gods as a D&D Cleric and wielding their power, before eventually being imbued with their own Outer-magick (and possibly also Outer-Godhead), becoming more like D&D Sorcerers.
18) What follows is that modern humans would have access to Elder-Godhead and Outer-Godhead (though, as mentioned, they are incompatible).
19) Elaboration on the Godhead dichotomy: humans possess the ability to attain both if by the proper process involving some sort of separation and distillation before recombination. That is, each type of Godhead would have to be attained separately. Using one type while working on the other type would nullify the process for both.
20) There's some sort of reason why the Outer Gods aren't running amok. It would appear that they can't directly interact with this Plane during Kali Yuga.
21) A side-note: the Elder-Gods and Outer-Gods don't care about your personal beliefs or even your personality. Humans are basically shit-ants to Them. You're either a pet-servant or a pesky morsel. So, for humans wishing to serve a God (and ultimately attain Godhead), the only really deadly sin is Acedia: spiritual sloth is the most sure way to go from pet to snack.
22) The principle of explosion holds, but only once every 1,000 Mahayugas when Lord Brahma (elsewhere referred to as Azathoth) awakens, disintegrating the fabric of material existence.
